Welcome to this module where I want to walk you through
the vue cli
version 3. In this course, we use the vue cli version 2 and there's nothing wrong with it,
you can still use it,
let me say that first but the new cli of course offers some great new features which are very interesting
to use.
So in this module, you will learn all about it and then you can decide with which cli you want to
continue.
Obviously we'll start using it in the command line and I'll show you a small demo of the cli
but let's first get the big picture, how does the new vue cli work? After you installed it for which I
will show you the command in a second,
you can run vue create to create a new vue project, previously with the old cli, you used vue init
.
and this command can still be enabled but more on that later
but now you use to vue create to create a new project and then you're presented with a choice, do you
want to use a preset and you can save your own presets or use some pre-build one or do you want to create
a new project where you configure everything on your own?
Now if you use a preset, then you're done,
you get the options of the preset and you get a project with which you can work, if you choose custom
config,
you can choose from a set of different plugins you can add to your cli project because the new
vue cli is heavily plugin driven.
You can add your own plugins, even you can write your own plugins and distribute them and you can add
functionalities to a vue cli project by adding plugins and some choices are presented to you when
installing or when creating a new project.
You can add plugins like linting, progressive web app support and way more, we'll see it in action soon.
You can then once you're done
also save that as a new preset if you want, so that you can use it for future creations and you don't
have to go through that manual config process for every new project,
so you can save your own favorite template. And once that is done and you got a new project, either with
a preset or with your custom configuration, you could of course develop in there, get features like a development
server, hot reloading, all that fun stuff which you would expect and you can of course build your project,
so then it's close to the old cli
but of course with the config and the power of the new cli. You can then also add plugins to the project
after you created it
and that's a huge advantage compared to the old cli,
there you got this template, you couldn't configure that much
and once you created the project, it was pretty hard to change that configuration.
You basically had to dive into the webpack configuration file to add features and whilst you can of course
do that,
it's not that much fun. With the new cli,
you can easily pull in official plugins and I will show you how such plugins are distributed and how
to find them,
you can easily pull in such plugins into your existing project and add the functionality you want without
creating a new project,
that's a huge plus.
So this is how the cli works in the big picture,
now let's take a closer look at that
and let's actually start using it and let's of course start with installing it.